We [music] have this process when we're
in prep for a movie trying to think of
if we only had one shot to tell the
story of [music] the scene, what would
that one shot be?
I'm Dan Tractenberg and these are
[music] my best shots.
>> [music]
>> I'll say the interesting thing about
Portal No Escape was of course the the
shot that is iconic to the game and to
what I wanted to do in the movie is to
have her on one side sticking her hand
through a portal and and then directly
on the right third of of of a screen her
her hand comes out. I had shot this
movie. I cut it. I'd scored it and did
not have the visual effects that the way
they needed to be to be awesome. So I
tweeted out all of my visual effects
needs and from that assembled this like
international a team of effects badasses
all over Twitter. So compositors in LA,
match movers in the Netherlands,
particle guy in New York, and a CG
modeler in the UK, all working
virtually. This is in like 2009. This
and the naent days of Twitter and and
working virtually to that capacity
through that was able to put together
all the visual effects the short needed
to to live up to our imaginations be
something that's special aesthetically
and different from what people were
already seeing in in [music] the video
game.
One of the small rooms at Comic-Con I
was premiering my short films. This is
this was a year before it ever even went
online. We had a tiny projector and we
showed the short and it was cut off on
the the sides of it just was center
punched. So literally her sticking her
hand in her hand coming out the other
side not even visible and it was like
the iconic shot of the movie. But that
certainly was like one of the first
things to come to mind of how it could
feel this this puzzle video game could
feel cinematic.
The shot of the movie for me personally
was the shot where she wakes up inside
the bunker for the first time because it
was my very first shot on a feature film
dream coming true. Here I am terrified
of making a movie for the first time.
And the shot that we had on the agenda
cuz we wanted to shoot the movie largely
in order was her waking up, which was an
a very extended take that starts close
up on her eye and then pulls back and
around to the other side of her, which
meant we had to the the grips had to
move a physical wall to allow the camera
department and then bring the wall back
in after the after the camera moved
through. So it it involved tons of
choreography. We did 16 takes. In the
end,
we used a take that was perfect other
than there being a focus buzz in the
middle when she reaches down for her
shackles. And thankfully, um, even
though a large part of the exciting
visual effects aren't until the end of
the movie, there actually were some
secret hidden visual effects. and we we
took a take where the leg was in focus
and grafted it onto the take with the
better performance and were able to
cobble together that shot. A part of
what I love about it too is just that I
really want to make sure that we the
audience was firmly linked to that
character's experience.
But sometimes suspense requires that you
know some things that the main character
doesn't or she knows some things that
you may not. So that with that shot,
you're able to really feel connected to
what she's doing. As we move to each
element, seeing her wake up, seeing the
IV, and then the the shackles, we are
linked to her. But also, she's seen the
room and we haven't seen the room yet.
So, there's some anxiety for us of like,
but where even are you until the shot
completes and moves around. So, that was
a nerve-wracking experience. And the
very first shot I ever did um for a
feature film,
the way that I got that movie was
assembling a pitch deck of the kinds of
moments and shots that inspired me and
that I thought belonged in a movie like
that. And there were several Hitchcock
references. Notorious is one of them.
There's a classic scene where they're
trading a key and there's a lot of keys
in our movie and photography and editing
that all is working towards the
hierarchy of knowledge of when the
audience knows certain things. All
that's a part of that pallet that comes
from Hitchcock but also guess who's
coming to dinner. It was like a filmed
play but very cinematic. There's a quite
a few scenes where you know Sydney
Padier like walks towards camera and and
then trades places. A lot of what we
credit Spielberg for today of like
multiple shots inside one take was
happening in Guess Who's Coming to
Dinner and and really inspired a lot of
the photography in Tank Cloverfield
Lane.
>> Will you ever bismerch Billy Joel?
So for the boys, the big shot for me was
the defining moment of of one of the
main characters of the series, which is
Huey, played by Jack Quaid, where he's
talking to his girlfriend, and she is
run through by a train, the Flash
Quicksilver like superhero. In the
script it read, as obvious as anyone
would think, the way to do that is the
way that car crashes have been handled
quite frequently where we're lulled into
a conversation and then it goes
aggressively violent. I think
instinctually I just felt like, man,
we've become so used to that gimmick and
that sort of cinematic structure and was
trying to think of how this moment could
be different and feel different and once
again tether us to Jack Quaid's
character and realized the cool way to
do it would be to have girlfriend to be
there in one frame and suddenly not
there in the other frame and then have
the camera wrap around and reveal a in
slow motion that she's been obliterated.
And the the very first instinct for it
was to actually as the camera comes
around
see her being pulled back and as the
parallax changes we would see that
actually her body is coming apart that
became too strenuous for the visual
effects department and was probably
betting off way more than we could chew.
So, it ended up being much more blood
related. As I've now watched so many
people watch that show and watch that
scene is it it's so sudden and watching
the shot evolve. It constantly has
people going, "Wait, no, that can't be.
Wait, no, that which is really upsetting
to have to have it slowly unfold on you
as opposed to doing the the the the
first instinct." Now, all this being
said, everyone was skeptical the entire
time. And the thing with visual effects
is they're terrible before they're
awesome. The network was asking for it
to be uh have it have it be a fast thing
and not you know which was antithetical
to everything we were attempting with
the shot. And in the end, thankful to
the VX department and I think Stephan
Fleet was our VFX supervisor and and uh
it it really did come off fantastic and
and I was so um relieved and so glad
that that um people around me could, you
know, see the vision and and and support
it. It's been a moment that I go back to
a lot on my career. Um, because there
are moments as a director that you do
need to pay attention and listen and
there's people around you that that
might see something you're not and you
need to let go of some things. But
there's also times when the whole point
is they don't actually see exactly what
you have in your head and you do need to
hold on to those things and and people
will eventually see what it's in your
head when it's fully realized. Um, it's
the wisdom to know the difference that's
the whole game.
If I'm really being honest, my [music]
favorite shot of of the whole movie is
after Nadu has um vanquished the the
Predator, it's just a shot of her
yelling.
[screaming]
the way that she belts and she was
actually sick that day and I think she
was even throat sick which is crazier.
Every time I get chills because of I
mean it's just I just I remember talking
to her about the scene in Captain
Phillips that the end of the movie um
when Tom Hanks sort of lets go. you
know, you spend that whole movie and
he's like very on task and he's just
getting things done and then all of a
sudden when he's finally safe, he really
lets emotion out and it's chilling and
gripping and that's a whole scene and
Amber did, I think, that uh in one
moment uh and is is a beautiful shot not
because of how it's constructed. There's
no weight to the frame that is is cooler
or there's no movement that is extra
special or a camera rig that was
eccentric. It was It's just Amber really
digging deep and and being very
affecting. So, um yeah, that's my
favorite shot from Prey. [screaming]
My cinematographer and I, Jeff Cutter,
we have this process when we're in prep
for a movie, which is trying to think of
if there we only had one shot to tell
the story of the scene, what would that
one shot be? Sometimes that shot becomes
the lynch pin for the scene. Sometimes
it's it doesn't even make it. It doesn't
become something we shoot, but it at
least like helps connect us to the story
and guide us through. I remember the
excitement of like there there was this
there was a moment in the script that is
where Nadu um leaves camp and sets off
on her journey. We got a drone and we
shot down in the camp. And so we have
this image of all the women going in one
direction and Nadu going in the other.
And it's a great piece of visual poetry
that that like in one shot you could put
it on your wall and go, "Oh, I get what
I get thematically what this movie is
about."
The funny thing about [music] animation
is I'll steal a line from my from my
co-director Josh Wasung. In animation
you can build anything but you have to
build everything. It still has limit the
limitations of time and budget. There
was one sequence in the first chapter of
The Shield that called for a raid on a
uh Russian stronghold. And it's like
what the whole story is leading towards.
We did not have the budget or resources
to build a Russian stronghold and this
needed to be like an awesome assault.
So, we honed in on having it feel like
the camera is tethered to the back of
Ursa, who's our Viking raider, and the
shot never leaves her back. So, you're
going to experience a raid, but we don't
need to show inside this hut, this is
happening, inside this part of the
castle, this is happening, inside that.
We just stay tethered to her back and
the camera points one direction,
occasionally going a little left, a
little right, and then we can unleash.
but in this in the confines of what we
could pull off. And it is an incredibly
bloody, insanely choreographed dope shot
that finishes. I mean, my favorite part
was we had that, but it's like, but how
does it end? And the best part is the
doors are closed. She's trying to get
inside to where the guy she's trying to
get revenge on lies, and the giant
church doors are closing. and she uh
grabs her shield uh slams it in
preventing the doors from from closing.
Grabs a guy, throws him against the
shield, his head rolls towards camera,
and then the camera then she grabs a
shield, doors open, boom. It's just a
great finish to to a shot that was
challenging on every department, but
beautifully done.
A shot that really sticks out to me was
the shot of Deck at the mouth of the
cave and he unfurls his sword. On the
one hand, I just love that a shot like
this is in a Predator movie. I've never
seen a shot like this in the franchise.
We see planets behind him. We know it's
otherworldly. The fun of it was it's we
shot this on day zero, which is a cheeky
thing that we do now where uh there's
like a camera prep day, but instead of
just prepping the camera, we'll actually
shoot. We took it to the beach. We shot
our opening on day zero just cuz we had
so much to do. That shot of him has some
physical element. We actually built some
set that's laying in the for bottom
foreground of frame and it's a force
perspective shot. A very old school
Hollywood technique. Our movie is filled
to the brim with visual effects, lots of
awesome digital artistry, and of course,
the franchise is rooted in like building
a physical suit and having a man inside
that suit. And I really wanted as much
as possible to have a magic ratio of
every time there's something artificial
in frame, there's also something
physical. And that's a shot that easily
easily could be done just comping in
something in the foreground and you'll
never know it. You'll never know it. But
the fun of of on day zero building a
tactile setpiece, I'd like to think it
also just has a little unspoken little
nod to the audience of feeling just that
much more immersive and that this isn't
entirely on a green screen. Yeah, that's
Badlands.
I will tell you a shot that I guarantee
most of your audience has not seen. I
reference it all the time. It is from a
movie called The Scorpion King. That is
a movie
uh that focuses in on the rocks
character from The Mummy Returns. It
opens on a couple vistas. Landscape.
landscape. It's a riff off of The Good
Bad, the Ugly, the opening of The Good
Bad and the Ugly, but all these
landscapes and it holds on this
landscape and this like barbarian dude
closeup enters frame, turns towards
camera, and then you hear and a shark or
something slams into his head and takes
him out and then it like zooms in on the
thing. So, it's like landscape, great
foreground thing, just like Good Man,
the ugly, and then um weapon nailing him
in the face. It is kickass and it lets
you know something awesome is coming. In
this course, it's the introduction to
the Rock's character, the character
intro without the character even being
there. Super badass, super awesome. The
other thing I will cheat and mention,
two shots. It's my my this will be my
favorite edit and is the opening to
Super 8. The opening of Super Eight is a
shot that slowly pushes in. It's inside
of a factory and there's a worker who's
on a ladder changing the sign that says
the last accident happened and it's
changing over from like 300 days ago or
however many long days ago back to zero.
And then the next shot is just a kid
outside his home on a swing set sad
swinging on a bench wide shot and that's
it. Those two shots like there's a
that's it. I know the whole story. I
know a really upsetting
emotional story through two frames that
Super Eight won the best openings to any
movie ever. and that and that cut those
two shots, you know, incredible poetry
and and emotionally affecting um just in
two frames.
>> [music]